[GSoC] Parallelisation of AnalysisBase with multiprocessing and dask (#4162)
MDAnalysis/mdanalysis: package/doc/sphinx/source/documentation_pages/analysis_modules.rst

Please see the individual module documentation for any specific caveats 
and also read and cite the reference papers associated with these algorithms.

.. rubric:: Using parallelization for built-in analysis runs

> Starting v.2.8.0, MDAnalysis ``AnalysisBase`` subclasses can run on a backend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from v2.8.0, MDAnalysis ``AnalysisBase`` subclasses can run on a backend
```

that supports parallelization (see :mod:`MDAnalysis.analysis.backends`). All analysis
runs, however, use ``backend='serial'`` by default, which is identical to the previous
behavior.

Without any dependencies, only one backend is supported -- built-in ``multiprocessing``, that
processes parts of a trajectory running separate *processes*, i.e. utilizing
multi-core processors properly. For now, parallelization is added to
:class:`MDAnalysis.analysis.RMS.RMSD`, but by 3.0 version it will be introduced

> to all subclasses that can support it.

Reviewer 2: is it guaranteed that all analyses will be parallelized in 3.0, or is it an aim?

Author: It's an aim, although you probably better ask @orbeckst for a better phrasing regarding the future.

Reviewer 3: Looking at the [3.0 roadmap](https://www.mdanalysis.org/2023/10/25/towards_3.0/) we are aiming at parallelization where possible (the roadmap is a bit vague) but not guaranteeing it — @hmacdope do you agree?

I think we can let the current text stand as is. It's a good goal... and will provide plenty of issues where people can try to solve one issue ("parallelize analysis tool X").

In order to use that feature, simply add ``backend='multiprocessing'`` to your
run, and supply it with proper ``n_workers`` (use ``multiprocessing.cpu_count()``
for maximum available on your machine):

.. code-block:: python

   import multiprocessing
   import MDAnalysis as mda
   from MDAnalysisTests.datafiles import PSF, DCD
   from MDAnalysis.analysis.rms import RMSD
   from MDAnalysis.analysis.align import AverageStructure

   # initialize the universe
   u = mda.Universe(PSF, DCD)

   # calculate average structure for reference
   avg = AverageStructure(mobile=u).run()
   ref = avg.results.universe

   # initialize RMSD run
   rmsd = RMSD(u, ref, select='backbone')
   rmsd.run(backend='multiprocessing', n_workers=multiprocessing.cpu_count())

> For now, you have to be verbal and specify both ``backend`` and ``n_workers``,
> since the feature is new and there are no good defaults for it. For example,
> if you specify too big `n_workers`, and your trajectory frames are big,
> you might get and out-of-memory error when executing your run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For now, you have to be verbal and specify both ``backend`` and ``n_workers``,
since the feature is new and there are no good defaults for it. For example,
if you specify a too big `n_workers`, and your trajectory frames are big,
you might get and out-of-memory error when executing your run.
```
